10631923	Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS) has been recognized as a dominant inherited syndrome. We report 2 cases of TBS. Case 1 was operated on for imperforate anus. Triphalangeal thumb and ear anomalies were remarkable. Deafness was diagnosed when the patient was 6 months old. Anomalies of the semicircular canals and the incus with inculomalleolar fusion were shown when the patient was 3.5 years old. During childhood, recurrent episodes of abdominal pain appeared. The diagnosis of hereditary angioneurotic edema (HANE) was made. HANE was familial as the father, the father's brother and the paternal grand mother were also affected. The parents of case 2, a female, are both mildly mentally retarded. This was the first pregnancy of the mother who had short stature. The child had an antepositioned anus, bifid right thumb, large toes, low set ears, microretrognathia and deafness. A (5, 16) translocation was observed in a child with TBS. At the breakpoint in 16q21.1, a gene coding for a transcription factor SALL1 has been identified and it was shown that mutations in the putative zinc finger of SALL1 cause TBS.
11455389	Brachydactyly type A-1 (BDA-1; MIM 112500) is characterized by shortening or missing of the middle phalanges (Fig. 1a). It was first identified by Farabee in 1903 (ref. 2), is the first recorded example of a human anomaly with Mendelian autosomal-dominant inheritance and, as such, is cited in most genetic and biological textbooks. Here we show that mutations in IHH, which encodes Indian hedgehog, cause BDA-1. We have identified three heterozygous missense mutations in the region encoding the amino-terminal signaling domain in all affected members of three large, unrelated families. The three mutant amino acids, which are conserved across all vertebrates and invertebrates studied so far, are predicted to be adjacent on the surface of IHH.
11484202	Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS) is a condition with imperforate anus, hand anomalies, and ear malformations with sensorineural hearing loss. Many cases are sporadic. Within and between families, the phenotype displays striking variability. Recently, the disease-causing gene for TBS was identified as SALL1, a zinc finger transcription factor. Here, we report a three-generation family with seven affected individuals who have a novel SALL1 mutation. Unique cardiac anomalies seen in this family include lethal truncus arteriosus in one patient and a lethal complicated defect, including pulmonary valve atresia, in a second patient. These severe cardiac anomalies have not previously been reported in a familial case of TBS. This family and a review of the literature indicate that cardiac evaluation is warranted in all individuals with this disorder. In addition, hypoplastic thumbs were seen in two individuals in this family and should, therefore, be considered a true feature of TBS.
1248162	The present report concerns a two-generation family of nine individuals in which the father and three of the six living children all had: (1) a mixed hearing loss with a Mondini type cochlear malformation and stapes fixation; (2) cup-shaped, anteverted pinnae with bilateral prehelical pits: (3) bilateral branchial cleft fistulas; and (4) bilateral renal dysplasia and anomalies of the collecting system. The father and one affected son also had aplasia of the lacrimal ducts. A fourth child who died at 5 months of age was reported to have branchial cleft fistulas and bilateral polycystic kidneys at autopsy. In addition, the concept of noso-embryologic communities is presented. Such groups are composed of syndromes whose total phenotypic spectra not only overlap but also share common elements in embryogenesis. This concept is illustrated with a group of branchial arch syndromes that are related in this way.
